update issuance page (#7921)
ethereum/ethereum-org-website: src/content/upgrades/merge/issuance/index.md

emoji=":chart_decreasing:"
title="ETH issuance tldr">

- Before The Merge ~13,000 ETH/day was issued to pay miners
- After The Merge, issuance depends upon the number of active validators on the network, so varies slot to slot.

> - The total issuance is approximaely 90% smaller now than it was pre-merge.

Reviewer: There's a typo.
Change it to "approximately".

> - Ether is also burned in every slot, with a greater amount burned when gas is higher. This means ether can be inflationary or deflationary depending on network demand.

Reviewer 2: Being a tldr section, my preference would be to keep some numbers for daily issuance under PoS available here, currently ~1700 ETH/day... I think it's helpful for people just looking for some simple numbers.

Author: idk I removed it implies the daily issuance is a fixed number - I find this to be misleading - its dependent upon N active validators and their performance. The original and your comment already vary by 100ETH/day.
I guess its ok with appropriate caveats, but I preferred the takeaway being a) issuance is variable, b) its about 1/10th what it was before merge.

Reviewer 3: The ideal scenario here would be live numbers. Maybe a big numbers component + Dune API could be used in the future to solve this? Three numbers: an average PoW issuance at some point close to The Merge (maybe the month leading up to it?), previous days' PoS issuance, and percentage reduction.

As much as I dislike seeing things written this way, the trade-off here might be something like: "_The total issuance is approximately 90% smaller now than it was pre-merge (~1700ETH as of October 2022)._" 

What do you think @jmcook1186 @wackerow?

Author: fine by me

> - Ether is also burned in every slot, with a greater amount burned when gas is higher. This means ether can be inflationary or deflationary depending on network demand.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- ETH is burned in every slot, with a greater amount burned when gas is higher. This means ETH can be inflationary or deflationary depending on network demand.
```

</Card>

## Issuance {#issuance}

Ethereum validators are rewarded with ETH for attesting to the state of the chain and proposing blocks. Rewards (or penalties) are calculated and distributed at each epoch (every 6.4 minutes) based on validator performance. The validator rewards are **significantly** less than the miner rewards that used to be issued on proof-of-work (2 ETH every ~13.5 seconds), as operating a validating node is not an economically intense activity and thus does not require or warrant as high a reward.

> **Consensus layer issuance:**

Reviewer 3: Do we need this heading? If we've got rid of execution layer issuance then we no longer have a point of comparison 🤔

> **Consensus layer issuance:**

Author: ```suggestion
```

> Small rewards are paid validators who attest to and propose blocks. Validator rewards accrue to _validator balances_ that are managed within the consensus layer. These are separate Ethereum accounts to the accounts we're used to on Mainnet, and until the Shanghai upgrade funds from validator accounts will not be withdrawable/transferrable. This means that although new ETH is still being issued, 100% of it will be locked from the market until this upgrade occurs. When the Shanghai upgrade is rolled out, this ETH will become available.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Small rewards are paid to validators who attest to and propose blocks. Validator rewards accrue to _validator balances_ that are managed within the consensus layer. These are separate Ethereum accounts to the accounts we're used to on Mainnet, and until the Shanghai upgrade funds from validator accounts will not be withdrawable/transferrable. This means that although new ETH is still being issued, 100% of it will be locked from the market until this upgrade occurs. When the Shanghai upgrade is rolled out, this ETH will become available.
```

Also, until withdrawals are confirmed, we should phrase this as being proposed for the Shanghai upgrade

Author: ```suggestion
Small rewards are paid to validators who attest to and propose blocks. Validator rewards accrue to _validator balances_ that are managed within the consensus layer. These are separate Ethereum accounts to the accounts we're used to on Mainnet, and until the Shanghai upgrade funds from validator accounts will not be withdrawable/transferrable. This means that although new ETH is still being issued, 100% of it will be locked from the market until this upgrade occurs. When withdrawals are enabled, this ETH will become available.
```

On top of the fee burn implemented by the London upgrade, validators can also incur penalties for being offline, or worse, they can be slashed for breaking specific rules that threaten network security. These penalties result in a reduction of ETH from that validator's balance, which is not directly rewarded to any other account, effectively burning it from circulation.

> ## Issuance estimates

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Issuance estimates {#issuance-estimates}
```

> So, how much ether is actually issued? The precise amount changes in each slot because it depends upon the amount of ether staked by validators and their performance. At the time of writing (September 2022), net issuance (`issuance-burn`) since The Merge has been ~3100 ETH (if we were still using proof-of-work, 54,000 ETH would have been issued). Extrapolating the current network usage into the future gives an estimated 0.22%/yr net issuance. However, current network usage is very low, and more transactions lead to more ETH being burned. The website [ultrasound.money](https://ultrasound.money/) allows you to make predictions for the future net issuance under a range of market conditions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
So, how much ETH is issued? The precise amount changes in each slot because it depends upon the amount of ether staked by validators and their performance. At the time of writing (September 2022), net issuance (`issuance-burn`) since The Merge has been ~3100 ETH (if we were still using proof-of-work, 54,000 ETH would have been issued). Extrapolating the current network usage into the future gives an estimated 0.22%/yr net issuance. However, current network usage is very low, and more transactions means more burned ETH. The website [ultrasound.money](https://ultrasound.money/) allows you to make predictions for the future net issuance under a range of market conditions.
```
